WHAT IS ANSIBLE?
 Ansible is an open source IT configuration management and automation platform. It uses human-readable YAML templates 
 so users can program repetitive tasks to happen automatically. 

WHICH AMONG PUPPET, CHEF, SALTSTACK AND ANSIBLE IS THE BEST
CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT (CM) TOOL? WHY?

WHAT ARE THE GOALS OF CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT PROCESSES?
 The purpose of Configuration Management is to identify, record, control, report, audit and verify service 
 assets and configuration items, including baselines, versions, constituent components, their attributes, and relationships.
 
WHAT IS PLAY BOOK,USES OF ANSIBLE PLAYBOOK?
Playbook is a set of instructions which are used to do some tasks It is used to install packages and configure large number of servers with in 
a short time, in ansible playbooks as well as conditions, variables and tasks can be saved, shared and reused

WHAT IS AN ANSIBLE MODULE?
 Some of the modules are Package management,copy,Debug,File,Lineinfile,git,Cli_command,Archive,Command, we use yaml syntax to pass modules in playbook

WHAT IS IDEMPOTENCY?
 an action which, when performed multiple times, has no further effect on its subject after the first time it is performed

WHAT ARE ROLES IN ANSIBLE?
 Roles are used to reduce the code complexity by writing code in multiple files and act in a single node. Roles let you automatically load related vars, 
 files, tasks, handlers, and other things based on a known file structure. After you group your content in roles, you can easily reuse them 
 and share them with other users.
 by default in roles we have apache in apache we have defaults,files,handlers,meta,tasks,templates,vars

SAY ANY 10 MODULES IN ANSIBLE
 command,script,copy,yum,tasks,url,file,service,template,debug,regester,set-fact
 
    ANSIBLE             CHEF
   agent less		agent based
   default port 22	customised ports
   python		    rubi
   push based		pull and push based
   playbooks		cookbooks
   free			    licensed, above 8 servers need to pay 
    
DEBUG MODULE
At any point of time if we want to get the data from the ansible playbook we will use debug module,
the beauty of the debug module is to check what is happening in the code

WHAT IS ANSIBLE GALAXY
Ansible galaxy is a repository of ansible roles which are used in playbook to exicute in various hosts, those hostes are connected through ssh  protocol,
which can be managed by controller servers(home, search, community)

ANSIBLE VAULT: To store any secrets we use ansible vault
to create vault--> ansible-vault create vault name.yaml  it will be encrepted
if we want to decript we have to use password 
ex:
---
- name:using ansible vaults
  hosts: all
  become: true
  vars_files:
    myvault.yaml
  tasks:
    - name: printing my bd name
	  command: echo "{{ mydbname }}"
	  
in this db name is stored in vault
when ever we execure playbook we need to  give like it need to ask for password like: ansible-playbook playbook.yaml --ask-vault-pass 


We can pass variables to playbook in the cli we will use -e flag and that variables for that

host_vars: It is used when we want to pass any variables to spesified hosts, for this we need to create server name.yaml the server name must be in the hosts file in that yaml file 
group_vars: this also same as abouve but it will execute in all server which is in that group
serial: to execure code in given no one by one for example if we give one the code execution will be one by one if we give it as 10 it will execure fir 10 server at once and again 10 servers like that           

ansible-playbook <playbookname.yaml> --step: for every time to execute the task it will ask for permission to execure or not
ansible-playbook --start-at-task "the task name " or "tags"  playbook name.yaml

example of ansible playbook
---
- name: installing httapd
  hosts: all
  become : true
  tasks:
    - name: install https
      yum:
        name :httpd 
        state: latest 

ANSIBLE COMMANDS
ansible-playbook -i hosts <playbook name>